Hello everyone and welcome to the solutions lecture for the project exercise of the regression with
SPARK section of this course.
Let's jump to her editor and get started.
All right.
I went ahead and opened the Lin exercise thought Skala.
Let's just go along and finish these tests.
First thing I want to do is import Linaria Russian something to know as you go through this exercise
is that it asks you to import things a little bit out of order.
Usually you would just import everything at the top of a script.
But hopefully making things in sections like this helps your understanding of what imports go with what
actions you import or Apache spark M-L regression loops to s's and then say linear regression and later
on you can explore using other regression models.
Right now I'll stick with the simplest linear regression.
Then as an option you can use the following code below to say error reporting.
This just will diminish the amount of error or warnings you see in the output in the terminal.
Then you want to start a simple Sparke session sual say import or Patchi that spark dot sequel and then
say Sparke session next.
You want to create a value called Spark and set it equal to spark session and keep things simple.
We will just say builder and then get.
Or creates So far we have our spring session.
Up next we want to use SPARC to read in the e-commerce customers CXXVI file.
So I will create a value called data and then say spark the read option will specify Hetter to be true
and we will also specify the option to infer the schema as we've done in the past.
Next up we want to format this to be CXXVI.
And finally we want to make sure we know the file name.
So the file name is that e-commerce customers file.
So we will load that up load
e-commerce customers.
Keep in mind that the way I have the file here I don't actually need to type in that stuff cxxviii extension
since not present here.
And another thing to keep in mind is that you don't have to write this all in one line.
You can use parentheses to separate this out into multiple lines.
Or put this all in an object to separate these options out into multiple lines will keep them all on
one line for now.
Up next we want to just print schema of the data frame.
So I will say data that print schema save that.
Let's open up a terminal here I've already have a terminal Sparke shell running in the regression folder
and I will load when Reg exercise Skala and make sure everything worked out.
All right started or spark session got some warnings but looks like we have no errors yet.
Let's make sure we're actually able to read in the state and print out the schema.
All right.
There it is.
So what is our scheme actually look like.
We have an email string an address string an avatar string average session length time on an app time
on a Web site length of the membership.
And then that yearly amount spent.
Remember that's the label everything else is going to be features.
So we want to add the next assignments print out an example row.
Now there's various ways to do this.
You can just choose whatever way you prefer.
The easiest way to do this is actually just by calling head off at this data.
So to say head let's go ahead and just show the first two rows and you get something looks like this
you can see someone's e-mail.
And again this is all just fake data so you don't worry about someone's actual email getting exposed.
Here's a fake address.
The avatar looks like it's just a color.
And then here's another row of data.
Now it's up to you how you actually want to print this.
There's another example if you go to the solutions you will click open.
This right now you scroll down on the solutions you'll see that you can also copy and paste this for
loop which kind of prints everything out and maybe a little bit of a nicer format.
Just one value at a time and we'll paste this just so you can see what that actually looks like.
Usually you probably want do something this expansive as far as a for loop but this may be a clear way
of showing what the actual data looks like.
So you can see time on app is this time a Web site is that etc..
And don't worry about the kind of ridiculous number of significant figures here.
That's just the way that the data was saved.
Let's clear that and continue on.
Next up we want to set up the data frame for our machine learning.
And in my opinion is probably one of the most important parts of the machine learning section in general
of making sure how to actually set up your data correctly remember needs to be in the form of two columns
label and features.
So I'll start off by using that vector assembler tool and I need to import that.
And you can always just reference the notes as far as where to import this or hopefully you can also
feel comfortable referencing the documentation.
So this comes from Orrery that Apache that sparked the HTML feature dot vector assembler and then also
from linear algebra to make sure this all works together.
I want to say Sparke M-L Len Owch vectors notes to make sure that we have no issues with vector assembler.
Then we want to rename the yearly amount spent column as label.
We also only want to grab the numerical columns from the data later on in subsequent lectures will show
you how to the categorical data.
But for right now we're just dealing with numerical information.
We want to set all of this as a new data frame called día.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We will say Val the f is equal to data and the first thing I want to do is grab that yearly amount Spence
and rename it as label.
So I will say select data yearly amount spent and then I will say as label all lower case and then the
next thing I want to do is grab those numerical column values.
Now a quick way to do this.
This is just do something like this.
Since we're dealing with Spark's shell and we don't have everything in an object I can simply say data
columns and get an array of all these columns strings.
This is going to help me out as far as what actually wants in this case.
I want average session length time on App time on a Web site and length of membership.
I will copy these paste them in here make sure we're back where we want to be wups sick of that and
actually copy that.
Let's try this again.
We'll highlight these right click copy right click paste.
There we go.
And now just convert these into those skulls strings that we need them to be.
So I will actually put this in multiple lines.
Using print says.
And we want to close off these quotes so we want the average session length the time on the application
and then we can start a new line there bring that back then time on Web site and again you need to use
those dollar signs since we're using Scullin notation here.
And then length of membership if you want and you could also use that sequence notation let's delete
that.
All right there you have it.
Let's save this and make sure our formatting works with those extra parentheses.
So I will load Lynne right exercise that skull again.
That prints out as example rows and looks like everything's working well.
I will go ahead and delete this for loop so you don't see this every time.
Rerun the script
and back quite quickly back.
There you go.
Moving along.
Next up we want the assembler to convert the input values to a vector.
Remember that a vector is what the algorithm reads to train the model.
So coming up next we need to use a vector assembler to convert the input column of DFA to a single output
column of an array called features.
This is something I keep reiterating.
But it's really important to kind of get this sort of workflow in your mind that we want to set the
input columns from which we are supposed to read the values and call this entire new object assembler.
So I will say all assembler is equal to new vector assembler.
I will set my input calls to an array consisting of these actual feature columns and I can just copy
and paste this here so I will copy this and paste this.
It may look a little strange on my screen just because I have the font so large but this is what you
should be doing is dollar signs.
We just need strings not columns here.
Looks like I have my average session length time on App time.
Website length of membership.
Those are my numerical features that I want to be working with.
And then finally I need to also set the output column to be features set to organize this.
I can break this up into multiple lines if I want to but I'm just going to scroll all the way to the
end here and take Carolis to say set output call to features all lowercase and let's go ahead and move
along.
Save that and something that's nice about SPARK shell.
You can just keep loading this as long as your data isn't humongous.
You can keep playing around this and making sure everything works and you can even just type in one
line at a time if you want into your SPARC shell.
Next we need to use the assembler to transform our data frame to the two columns.
So once you've created that assembler it actually use it.
So we will save our output is equal to assembler will say.
Transform DMF.
I will say selects and then I only want to select the label and the features.
Then I'm going to create a linear regression model object so save Val L-R as equal to new.
Remember we already imported linear regression so we're good to go there.
Sorry I've created my linear regression model object haven't added any extra parameters we'll get into
that later when we talk about parameter grids.
And next I want to fit the model to the data and call this model LR model so I will say that all L-R
model is equal to LR fit output.
Next we want to print the coefficients in print the intercept for linear regression.
That's actually quite easy.
We'll just say print line and then I want to say with some string interpretation here ass I'll say Coeff
dollar sign and you don't really need to use these curly brackets.
But it's good form coefficients.
And then I will go ahead and say int..
And call L.R. model int..
And then close off these double quotes.
Let's make sure that all actually works.
We may need to possibly debug syntax error.
So just to Chickaree things working correctly I went ahead and ran that OK.
And again if you get warnings don't worry as long as you're not getting a whole error you should be
good to go.
Looks like we're able to successfully print out those coefficients and print out that intercept.
Now let's actually summarize the model over the training set and print out some metrics.
Again just to reiterate you shouldn't usually get the summary off your own training set.
We haven't reached train test validation splits yet.
So keep that in mind that you usually would split your data into a training set and a testing set.
Right now we're just going to grab summary.
Call it training summary instead of equal to L.R. model
summary.
And then I want to show the residuals the root mean squared error.
The mean square there and then the R-squared values.
So this model or this model summary actually makes this really easy I will just say training summary
residuals that show for the residuals themselves.
And then I can say print line.
Let's go ahead and print out the root means squirter there and that's just going to be the training
summary dots.
And in this case it's the root mean square close française finish off.
And I will copy and paste this line two more times because we're going to do something really similar
for the means corridor and the R-squared value.
So we're going change here is the square that is just this means quarter and then R-squared value.
I'll say Art 2 is just going to be our to save that run it.
And that should be importing everything.
Making sure print schema looks good using that assembler.
There are the residual values and looks like we're able to explain 98 percent of the variance so this
is a pretty good model.
Again we don't know how well this model perform on data it hasn't seen yet but given the fact that it's
doing a pretty nice explanation of variance here with Point 9 as it's R-squared value this should be
a pretty good model for this data.
And since this is artificial data I can just give you a verification right now.
This data is really easy to fit to a very simple linear regression.
So you shouldn't be surprised if you performed really well in this data.
Now in real world data is going to be a different story but we'll get to that later when we actually
deal with Kaggle project data.
Let's just quickly review everything we did.
Hopefully you're able to more or less follow along with the previous lectures as far as actually filling
out this linear Russian exercise.
Personally did was imported linear regression.
Again as I noted before usually all imports will go to the top of the script.
They wanted to start a simple Spark's session.
Just did that spark session read in the e-commerce customer CSFB file printed out the schema of that
data frame explore the data frame a little more by just pointing out that head of the data frame.
And then this is the crucial part.
Setting up a data frame for machine learning.
Right now we're just dealing with numerical data haven't thought of categorical features yet in this
course but we wanted to make sure to import the vector assembler into vectors making sure that we can
actually grab all those features and set the label column as label as far as its name goes.
Select those numerical features or at least the features we want to use and then create an assembler
object using new vector assembler.
Set the input columns of those features as an array and then set an output column as features.
Up next we want to actually use that assembler to transform the data frame that we had select the data
and we only want to select now the label column and the features column set that has output.
Create a new linear regression model objects fit the model to the data.
Call that model LR model and then print the coefficients intercept as well as the summary data.
All right.
Hopefully by now you're feeling a lot more comfortable with using machine learning with Scala and Sparke.
I know it can be really intimidating at first especially if it's your first time just browsing through
the documentation it seems almost impossible there's a lot of debugging to do but hopefully splitting
it up into these separate chunks and these smaller steps helps your understanding of setting up any
data source into a data frame that a machine learning library and SPARC can't read.
If you have any questions go ahead and make sure you check out the solutions script to this has some
more data and more information there.
And also feel free to post the Q&A forums as well as exploring Web sites like stack overflow or the
spark documentation.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.